## Data cleanup

3.21 The 4 C's of Data Cleaning: Correcting, Completing, Creating, and Converting
You can clean your data by 1) correcting aberrant values and outliers, 2) completing missing information, 3) creating new features for analysis, and 4) converting fields to the correct format for calculations and presentation.

Correction: Reviewing the data did not reveal any erroneous or unacceptable inputs. However, we will wait for the completion of our exploratory analysis to determine whether we should include or exclude these outliers from the data set. It should be noted that if they were unreasonable values, like age = 800 instead of 80, then it's probably a safe solution to fix it now. However, we want to be careful when changing the data from its original value, as an accurate model may need to be created.
End: in those fields where there are null values or no data. Missing values can be bad because some algorithms don't know how to handle null values and won't work. While others like decision trees can handle null values. Thus, it is important to correct before we start modeling because we will be comparing and contrasting several models. There are two common methods: either remove the entry or fill in the missing value using reasonable input. It is not recommended to delete an entry, especially a large percentage of entries, unless it really is an incomplete entry. Instead, it's better to impute missing values. The basic methodology for qualitative data is imputation using mode. The basic methodology for quantitative data is imputation using mean, median, or mean + randomized standard deviation. An intermediate methodology is to use a basic methodology based on specific criteria; for example, average age by class or ship to port by fares and SES. There are more complex methodologies, but they should be compared to the base model before deployment to determine if complexity actually adds value. For this dataset, age will be imputed using the median, the cockpit attribute will be removed, and landing will be imputed using mode. Subsequent iterations of the model may change this decision to determine if it improves the accuracy of the model.
Create. Feature development is when we use existing features to create new features to determine if they provide new signals to predict our outcome. For this dataset, we will create a header function to determine if it played a role in survival.
Transformation: Last but not least, we'll get to the formatting. There are no date or currency formats, but there are data type formats. Our categorical data is imported as objects, making the math difficult. For this dataset, we will convert the feature data types to categorical dummy variables.

Devide them into multiple age groups.
You can also check they were travel solo or not, also can count their family size, which may help you to predict.
